Gh-534: Initial docs for federated POC (#535)
gchq/gaffer-doc: docs/administration-guide/gaffer-stores/simple-federated/access-control.md

# Simple Federation Graph Access Control

Graphs added to a federated store can have restrictions placed on them in
addition to the standard user controls that may be in place on the data itself.

## Restricting Graph Access

To restrict access to a graph you must add the access controls when the graph

> is added to the federated store. Once added to a store a graph's access can not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is added to the federated store. Once added to a store a graph's access cannot
```

                "gaffer.store.properties.class": "uk.gov.gchq.gaffer.accumulostore.AccumuloProperties",
                "gaffer.cache.service.class": "uk.gov.gchq.gaffer.cache.impl.HashMapCacheService"
            },
            "owner": "graphOwner",
            "isPublic": true,
            "readPredicate": {
                "class": "uk.gov.gchq.gaffer.access.predicate.AccessPredicate",
                "userPredicate": {
                    "class": "uk.gov.gchq.gaffer.access.predicate.user.DefaultUserPredicate",
                    "creatingUserId": "graphOwner",
                    "auths": [ "readAuth1", "readAuth2" ]
                }
            },
            "writePredicate": {
                "class": "uk.gov.gchq.gaffer.access.predicate.AccessPredicate",
                "userPredicate": {
                    "class": "uk.gov.gchq.gaffer.access.predicate.user.DefaultUserPredicate",
                    "creatingUserId": "graphOwner",
                    "auths": [ "writeAuth1", "writeAuth2" ]
                }
            }
        }
        ```

## Public and Private Graphs

Graphs added to a federated store can have a `isPublic` field added to them.

> This field controls if the added graph is public which means, all users can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field controls if the added graph is public which means all users can
```

submit requests to this graph from the federated store. A public graph will
essentially ignore any read predicate applied to it assuming all users can
see at least some data in the graph. Even if a graph is public restrictions
on the data inside it will still apply.

If `isPublic` has been set to `false` the graph will be added as private.
A private graph will check the specified read predicate to ensure the user
has access before running a query.

!!! note
    A federated store can be configured to disallow any public graphs from being
    added, please see the [store properties](./configuration.md#store-properties)
    for more details.

## Read and Write Access

As previously mentioned read/write access can be applied to graphs added to
federated stores. Reading from a graph is assumed to be running any operation on

> the respective graph, this includes operations such as, `AddElements` etc. Write

Reviewer 2: I feel like this should be bold or in a warning box or something as Adding/Deleting data being a read operation is unusual

Author: I agree it is unusual but it replicates the existing functionality, I'll add in some emphasis to better highlight it.

access to the graph is required for modifying how it is stored in the federated

> store such as, deleting or renaming the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
store, for example, deleting or renaming the graph.
```

### Access Control Predicates

To determine if a user has access to read or write, a predicate can be
specified that will be checked before any operation related to the graph is
executed.

All predicates are passed through by specifying them as the `userPredicate` in
the constructor of an `AccessPredicate`. Some default predicates are available
and are as follows however, if you wish to write your own predicate it must

> implement the Java's [`Predicate<User>`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/function/Predicate.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implement Java's [`Predicate<User>`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/function/Predicate.html)
```

interface.

- `DefaultUserPredicate` - Can be used to define a list of auth strings a user

> must have to satisfy the predicate. Also will pass if the user is the owner e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
must have to satisfy the predicate. This will also pass if the user is the owner, e.g.
```

> matches the `creatingUserId` the predicate was initialised with.

Reviewer 2: I thought it said above that the owner had no special privileges

Author: It is slightly confusing as you can put any user in here it does not have to match the owner, the owner field of a graph still does not have any privileges its just metadata.
